## Graph QL ##
- Graph QL is a specification like SQL. You see SQL handles Postgres, MSSQL, MySQL etc differently but its same SQL, right. Similarly, Graph QL is also
a specification which works with various technologies.
- Hence instead of learning it with any technologies, we should first learn about GRAPH QL.
- Graph QL ==> Specification + Nest.js ==> Implementation( it says how nest has implemented graph ql but it can be different how express, Go or Python implements it).
---
Graph QL server knows how to handle a given appropriate data but it doesn't have any data of it's own,confusing right?
>> See Apache Server, when you start it does it give you any page information, no. but when you provide an HTML file to it, it renders that file, right. Similarly Graph QL server does the same thing, you provide it with appropriate query it will does the rest job for you.

- Graph Query Language
- Designed and Developed by **FaceBook**.
- It comes handy when we make huge number of API calls, because in Rest we have one API call for one task.
- Benefit of Graph QL is that we can only select what data we need instead of getting whole data( all keys of JSON response.) but in rest we get whole data and then we can decide what keys we need.
- When we have huge amount of load on server, we want to make sure that there must be as less as possible API calls, there GRAPH QL can be handy.
---
### Cons of GRAPH QL ### 
- In the frontend it looks awesome and very smooth but in the backend it makes thing messy and to handle it we have to use lots of configurations and write resolvers( learn in coming lectures).
- It is also very hard to debug Graph QL code.
  
---
> Conclusion: If you application is facing huge amount of traffic, it is worth considering GRAPH QL.